foreign
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
[Music]
Good morning Joe hey good morning how
are you
doing great it's uh crazy out there
right now economically I'm having a lot
of people in my world and coaching
clients
facing what feels like to be facing some
pretty big decisions
and so this has been something that's
sort of been
you know up for me lately is just sort
of sitting in this
uh the kind of perception that people
often have that if we make emotional
decisions we can't trust them like we
can't trust our decisions when there's
emotions involved
absolutely rational get emotions out of
it yeah which is hilarious yeah that
happened to me this morning actually I
was uh speaking to
um an entrepreneur in Israel who
same thing said the number one problem
he was having was decision making and
and also if I recall correctly also you
know talked about rational decision
making which as we've talked about many
times you know there is no such thing as
rational decision making
and there what but what's really true is
that
um there if you like
I would say it like this if you make
a decision from depression it's most
likely to bring more depression if if
you if you make a decision from
um trauma it's most likely to bring more
trauma if you make a decision from
happiness it's more likely to bring
more happiness or the other way to think
about it is that happy people seem to
make decisions that continue to make
them happy and depressed people seem to
make the decisions that make them more
depressed so I get the idea of like oh I
don't want to make an emotional decision
it's just impossible like the the
question is how do you make decisions
how do you make decisions
knowing that emotions are controlling
the game how do you use emotions to make
great decisions or something like that I
think it's a more accurate question
yeah or how do you how do you make great
emotional decisions given that every
decision is an emotional decision right
right that's even a better way to put it
yeah yeah
so and this is this has been something
we've we've covered in a lot of
different ways and different episodes
here and so I think this is just
something that's very core to our work
is that you know we we kind of break up
that perception that it's the emotions
in the decisions that are the problem
um rather than avoiding the emotion in
the decision that causes the
causes the outcomes we're afraid of
yeah yeah that's right that's right so
it's it's it's not about not making an
emotional decision it's about not
avoiding emotions in your decision
making it's it I think that's what
you're pointing at there and that that's
a far more
uh useful way to take a look at it and
and what's interesting to me is that
so there's this idea of okay I'm gonna
welcome and accept a certain emotions so
that I can have clear decision making
and how that works what's interesting to
me is that how how you welcome and
accept emotions does a lot more than
clarify your decision making it's it is
very much
um when we talked about embracing
intensity in one of the earlier episodes
it's very much kind of the mechanism
behind that which is
being able to embrace difficult emotions
uh enjoy them welcome them that is like
the biggest uh
indicator leading indicator of
transformation and one of the ways that
that works is it helps us make great
decisions but it's definitely not the
only way it works so so to be able to
make great emotional decisions also
changes a whole bunch of other cool
things in your life
yeah yeah if you can make if you can
make the emotional decision of laying
off somebody that you consider close and
a friend
then and you can welcome all of the
emotions around that then you'll be able
to make a clear decision and be present
throughout the whole thing is sort of
the
correct and and I would say that if you
are able to welcome all those difficult
emotions there and in other aspects of
your life other things occur like
you're less judgmental you're less
defensive the emotion what you think our
negative emotions start turning into
positive emotions there's all sorts of
you you make better decisions you
interrupt unhelpful patterns you you
know you have more connection with
people all sorts of things happen from
that simple thing of what we've called
embracing intensity but I'll call here
loving accepting
all that all the difficult emotions and
honestly positive ones or or as the as
the I think I've said this recently but
as the youth they're saying like feel
the feels that's the yeah that's the way
my that's why my girls are saying it
feel the feels so what makes what makes
feeling the feels
actually work feeling the feels and
loving your emotions
to catch people up on this
what is it what is it that makes this
make better decisions makes this happen
yeah there's so so there's so many
things that I I just discussed some of
them but just to go into depth a little
bit so oftentimes we use judgment as a
way to not feel difficult emotions as a
matter of fact you've been you've you've
seen the exercise that we've done where
and done the exercise where you get to
discover every time you're judging
somebody there's an emotion there that
you're not feeling or
every time you're defensive there's an
emotion there that you don't want to
feel so
and and we've talked about on the
podcast how when we invite an emotion
when we welcome the emotion if it feels
different than if you
are resisting the emotion emotions
unresisted and emotions resisted feel
very different from one another even
though it's the same emotion
but the the three major mechanisms I
would I would think out of the dozens
and dozens the three major mechanisms of
of
that transform Our Lives because we're
embracing welcoming
um emotions it are the decision making
the
um stopping the patterns and the and the
increase of connection
so let's double click on that a little
bit then yeah so so let's let's go into
just a little bit more about how
how it affects decision making
kind of beyond what we just discussed
right so we've discussed on the podcast
how
um how we make emotional decisions
neurologically and if we take the
emotional center of the brain out that
we stop making decisions so we've talked
about that so then the question is if we
can't make logical decisions or if we're
using logic to determine what emotion we
think we're going to feel given a
decision then
the question becomes how do you clarify
decision making since it you know logic
isn't going to do it and the answer
there is
uh
not using the decision to avoid an
emotion or to run towards an emotion
to allow a decision to be a expression
of our authenticity what we're excited
about like our joy
and oftentimes what we're doing is we're
deciding something as a way to what
either seems like avoid a consequence
and those consequences are emotional
feelings
or
run towards a consequence or like hope
hope for a consequence which again is a
feeling and when I meet and just to be
specific about that somebody might say
no I'm trying to avoid losing a billion
dollars that's not a feeling yeah I'm
following my joy yeah and uh getting a
billion dollars and volume yeah and so
what I would say to somebody like that
is well look if you had a choice between
like oh you got the billion dollars but
you're absolutely freaking miserable and
you want to kill yourself every day and
it's just a struggle to stay alive
you know what what do you make of that
decision or vice versa if you lost
everything but you were happier than
you've ever been and you felt like
totally comfortable and at peace and
joyful how would you feel about that
like that is you couldn't be like oh
crap there's no money because you just
were in so much joy you're just like oh
this is great
so the the consequences that were
avoiding are emotional consequences and
so
the question becomes how do you invite
and learn that each of these emotions is
this wonderful thing not to be avoided
or not to be run towards that the entire
spectrum is lovely just like you
wouldn't you wouldn't like always want
pizza or you wouldn't always want
the same bottle of red wine you would
act it's actually the joy is in the
eclecticness the eclecticness of of or
the full emotional palette and that each
one of them is information and if you
cut off any of them then you have
information that you're not going to get
which is critical so so the the the the
real thing there is how do I
how does one
just love and embrace all the emotions
and that's the and and as you do your
decision making clarifies if you're like
oh I'm happy to do that even though I it
might be something that most people like
oh I might need to be sad to do the
thing that's right by me I might need to
be sad to be authentic I might need to
feel like a failure to actually have the
success that I I'm wanting so if you can
embrace all of those emotional
experiences then your decision making
clarifies
now I think there's also a there's a
Nuance here where a lot of people hear
this and be like well okay so let's say
I'm okay with losing a billion dollars
I'm okay with you know losing all my
investors money I'm okay with if I make
it so that I'm okay with losing my
partner that I love
then doesn't that make it more likely
that this happens because it's you know
the fear of those things that makes me
do something alternate
um and there's something that I noticed
there where it's like how much is it the
the future emotion and how much is it
actually about the present fear of
feeling the future emotion
yeah so that's a great one so so so this
is actually leads into the second thing
which is like the repeating pattern so
that's a second mechanism so the first
mechanism is it you know that the the
way that us embracing emotions brings us
joy and
and transformation
first is the decision making how it
affects our decision making but the
second is how it it affects repeating
patterns so
what you're saying there is basically
the opposite of what actually occurs so
this is where I'm starting to come up
with this term like golden algorithm I
don't know why I want it it's just so
important and it's and it's
and it it took me years to realize like
this is kind of at the bottom of
everything to some degree and
I'm always hesitant to say this is
always at the bottom of everything right
there's a lot of like completeness in
that which is never true and it also
feels like so
so important and so true so often
but so anyways the the way that this
algorithm goes is that we invite
the thing that we're avoiding in the
exact way that we are avoiding it
so I'll just say that again which is we
are inviting
the thing that we're avoiding in the
exact way that we're avoiding it and
this is how our patterns repeat so we
experience some sort of trauma that we
weren't allowed and in that trauma we
weren't allowed or didn't feel something
because it was too intense at the moment
and so we keep on repeating the patterns
to
get back to homeostasis and feel it and
it happens through this algorithm and so
but like a simple example of this would
be
um my daughter
and I are sitting there and she had a
big project which she went to uh some
bureaucracy like fish and game
bureaucracy and some
secretary there you know shied at her
for trying to do something
bigger than her britches so to speak and
and I asked her I was like to my
daughter I was like well how what
happened she goes oh it sucked and I'm
like what were you trying not to feel
and she said I didn't want to feel like
a failure I was like oh and then what
did you do to not feel like a failure
and she said I stopped trying and what
did stop trying what did not trying
create it created me feeling like a
failure
that that's how it works and there's
every every single problem that you face
you can go to and say okay what's the
emotion I'm avoiding
and
um
and how is the way that I'm avoiding it
actually creating the problem
so you can say I can never
um make my wife happy as an example like
that's a problem no matter what I do my
wife isn't happy blah blah blah blah
that kind of thing and and you can just
look at it and say okay so what's the
emotion that you're trying to avoid oh
I'm trying to avoid
her disappointment and how do you avoid
her disappointment
and oh I avoid her disappointment by it
could be a number of things but running
away from her whenever she's
disappointed okay so that definitely is
gonna make her more disappointed yeah or
it might be I tried to fix her problems
and which of course makes her feel like
she's less than and not good enough
which constantly will make her feel
disappointed because she's not happy
with herself so
like any problem that you have you can
backwards engineer it using this
algorithm and say oh what's the emotion
that I'm avoiding that's creating the
problem
and so that's how that's how it works
yeah that's the pattern
interesting to see the uh sort of the
way you said earlier that like this
seems to be at the bottom of everything
and I know that that might you know
that's a very like
broader like complete statement to make
but I see another a parallel here with
identity as well where in in that
example where it's like well if my wife
is disappointed with me then them means
I'm not good enough and if I have the
identity of being good enough by a
certain standard then if I'm not meeting
that standard I'd have to feel something
and so I'm both avoiding the feeling
and I'm also maintaining an identity and
this happens in in relationships a lot
whether it's work or personal around
like for example trust I've had have had
some sessions where people are like yeah
I just I really want I want people to
trust me uh and what they kind of mean
by that is I want to be seen as
trustworthy and what ends up showing up
in their life is that they
you know they they don't share anything
with people around them that might
seem like mistrust because they project
that other people want to be felt like
they're trustworthy rather than
recognize where trust isn't and be able
to work on it and then it just ends up
being this kind of subconscious lack of
trust for example
until something something happens and
then they're like oh no people don't
trust me right and then that emotion
comes in you know yeah right so yeah
beautifully seen and I I'm gonna Express
that in a slightly different way which
is the first first thing is yeah so this
person doesn't want to feel
untrustworthy they don't want to feel
like people can't trust them whatever
emotion that brings up in them right
like oh I'm not good enough or I'm not I
don't have integrity or whatever and
then if you just apply that the golden
algorithm to it you'd you could see oh
um I want people to make me I want
people to feel like I'm trustworthy
which means I'm avoiding people feeling
I'm avoiding the emotion that comes from
people feeling like I'm not trustworthy
well as it turns out if you want people
to see you as trustworthy that is not
trustworthy in itself right so it's just
because you don't you know I don't I'm
not going to trust somebody who wants me
to see them in a certain light as much
as I'm going to trust somebody who's
just going to be with me as I am and and
with them how they are and and talk to
me as they are with what's coming up
with them in the moment but the
algorithm will be something to the
effect of oh I am avoiding feeling
untrustworthy by not speaking my not
speaking the truth about when I'm not
trusting you
because of this projection and then now
I really can't trust you because I know
that there's a problem because I can
read it all over your face and you're
not telling me
and so the exact way that we're avoiding
it is the way that we invite it
it's it's so edifying when you see it
when you can see that in every single
problem you have it's like
such a thing
yeah yeah so something that's
fascinating about this is I could
imagine that this for for some people
this might just be a new way to beat
ourselves up we learn we learn this
algorithm and then we start to blame
ourselves
uh and shame ourselves for everything
that happens for everything that happens
that results in a difficulty motion for
us we're like I must have been avoiding
this emotion see I did it again uh
and uh so yeah so how do we how do we
address that I would I would be using
the golden algorithm I'd be asking well
what is the emotion that I'm trying to
avoid here
that's what I would be doing I'd be
looking at the and then not avoid it
and so you mean the emotion inside of
beating inside of beating myself up I
would look for what's the emotion I'm
avoiding and I would feel it
and what's an example in sort of your
your history with coaching what are some
of the things that people are avoiding
Feeling by beating themselves up
there's lots of things that people can
avoid feeling when they when they beat
themselves up
um
oftentimes they're uh though at least
the first level of what they're avoiding
is the thing they're beating themselves
up for
so let's say I'm the shame is the way to
stop the emotional experience and so
whatever they're ashamed of is what
they're preventing themselves from
feeling so as an example
I um
I lied lie to somebody and I feel shame
over line and I'm beating myself up for
lying to somebody
there's usually an emotion that I have
to feel
for lying them maybe it's a feeling of
remorse maybe it's a feeling of sadness
maybe it's a feeling of
of uh anger that I felt something was
more important than my integrity and I'm
avoiding that emotional experience so on
the first level I would say that's what
they're avoiding and by feeling that
then the shame moves away and and then
they can get back to
seeing this as a great tool that they
get to use instead of beating themselves
up
now you mentioned that there were three
main things the third one is connection
so yeah let's move on to that one well
it's a great segue uh right away
like shame is one of the ways that we
use to avoid emotions
um and that shame disconnects us from
ourselves disconnects us from the people
around us
if we judge people we're avoiding
emotional experience and so that's a way
that disconnects us from them and
judgment is a way that we disconnect
from others and we disconnect from
ourselves uh defensiveness is another
one that when there's a defensiveness
happening we often
feel wrong and we're avoiding it
and even if we are not wrong we feel
like we're wrong
uh and I would say almost every time
that happens and uh and so that's
another example of it so most of the
ways that we and I think it's just very
simply most simply put
that when we feel disconnected from
ourselves what we feel disconnected from
is our emotional experience
that's the thing that we are running
away from or avoiding
so if all of a sudden you are making
great decisions and you aren't repeating
your Pat your unhelpful patterns and
you're feeling deeply connected and
moving into connection and moving from
connection
you can imagine how quickly your life
transforms and all that's required in
all of this is just to feel the emotions
that you don't want to feel
yeah and of course in alluding back to
the Embrace intensity episode not
creating right emotions that you think
you need to feel or you know setting up
a crucible for yourself or diving into
shame and wallowing in it right they
don't worry there's plenty of negative
emotions just hanging out that you're
avoiding you know you don't have to
create others
I I have a personal story on this one uh
there was
yeah so I mean I'm thinking of just like
a very like an everyday example is like
you know you get a parking ticket you're
like oh parking ticket stupid idiot
shouldn't have done the thing and then
your parking ticket sits on the counter
and every time you look at the parking
ticket you're just like oh damn and then
you never pay it and then it ends up
getting fees and fines and everything
and then it's even worse and you feel
even more upset about it
um and I've heard something interesting
that sometimes people do with that which
is uh
that if you take the parking ticket and
then you imagine that you've already
lost the money but now it's actually a
check and if you go and you deposit the
check and the check is made out for the
amount of the penalty you'll save by
actually paying it on time
and then like every time you look at it
you're like oh look
free money woo let's pay this right
which is an interesting flip on it but
it is a great clip on it sort of a
there's a little bit of golden algorithm
there yeah that yeah that like that gut
punch
pushing you directly away from exactly
what your
you know optimal action would be
that's right yeah it right and if you're
not beating yourself up from it there's
nothing to avoid then you just send the
check in and then right yeah it's a very
that's a fascinating thought process and
and yes and that flip and and what's
interesting is most of these behavioral
hacks that you see like the
quicker ones or the are often
changing the way you think about it to
change the way that you feel about it
right so oh I I make this story and the
story is I'm a bad person who has to be
punished and be paid a penalty and I
don't want to feel that too I am
somebody who's receiving a check and
therefore I'm happy to pay this thing
right like it's literally you're
changing the meaning to change the
emotional reality that's happening
which is an interesting short-term hack
but in the long term it's more freeing
to be able to feel the full gut punch of
the regret
of the you know of the whatever you'd
have to feel about having
received a parking ticket
time whatever yeah they also go hand in
hand too in the fact that
um as you learn to embrace enjoy welcome
these emotions they change right so
backup punch won't be the same gut Punch
If you fully Embrace and enjoy it and
and love it and accept it and look
forward to it then all of a sudden
the gut punch isn't the same expression
it doesn't feel the same in the body so
there's that aspect of it too yeah if
you're going to try to change every
single story so that you never have a
negative emotion that's going to be a
long haul and it's never going to be com
it's never going to completely work
however if you can
um
however seen through stories is great
it's very useful and
what I notice is as people
um feel deeply into these emotions and
accept them and welcome them what
happens is that their stories change
naturally the head kind of catches up
eventually and they and it's and it sees
that like
the it I wouldn't say it sees I would
say that a lot of our stories are Guided
by the emotions whether we want to admit
it or not and so that would be another
benefit
to feeling deeply and exploring and
welcoming all these emotions is that our
stories change and they become far more
conducive to living a great life
yeah and another thing here is the the
increasing sensitivity to these emotions
the more you welcome them the more
you'll notice
that tiny little bit of gut punch of
like oh I'm probably over my parking but
I don't want to leave this conversation
it's so good I'll just ignore that for a
minute right and so this is something we
mentioned in the we talked about this a
little bit in the Q a episode recently
where you know the more the more of this
work you do the more sensitive you
become and the less
you know the the less you're willing to
handle certain and deal with certain
things in your life so you end up
feeling feeling more and it comes
earlier which is really good for making
great emotional decisions is really yeah
well well done Brett that was great that
was a great callback yes that's right
you can make a lot better decisions
if you are sensitive to the emotional
experience that you're having in the
moment and you become more sensitive the
more you feel into them what's also
interesting is that there's there you
know we made a distinction before about
choices and decisions but if you'd look
at all those little choices that happen
automatically that we don't think about
those are controlled even more by
emotions than anything else
and so as you do as you go through these
big decisions and find these
big emotions you don't want to feel as
you go through the judgment and find
these emotions you don't want to feel
and you start feeling them and loving
them and accepting them all those
automatic decisions all those oh I'm
going to just scroll Facebook for a bit
or oh I'm gonna go take a walk or what
all those little to say I'm gonna take
I'm gonna hear all those little
decisions change which is super cool and
it it's really hard to what I notice is
it's really hard
it's it's not impossible but it's really
hard to
say change a habit and say okay I'm
going to remember every time I put on my
shoes I'm gonna do it differently or
every time yeah I wake up I'm gonna
drink tea instead of coffee like those
things can be really challenging
but what I notice is that when a certain
emotional stuff gets loved and unhinged
and it's not a hook anymore some habits
just change automatically a lot of them
change automatically and I remember
um you know in my 20s I was smoking
quite a bit of pot and I was beating
myself up for smoking pot and as soon as
I started to love anger and allow anger
in a whole new way than and and and and
then the beginning of sadness
marijuana just I just lost interest I
just lost interest in it and I found
that with a lot of
a lot of the habits that we have are
used to help us not feel something
and so if we bat what we call bad habits
and so the more that you allow those
emotional experiences you learn to love
them and you embrace them then the
habits are unnecessary
yeah something you said about
um about people making the decision okay
every morning I'm going to drink tea
instead of coffee you know these
these decisions lead to something that
people call decision fatigue which is
yeah like you can do it for a while and
then eventually you know you run out of
dopamine or you run out like whatever
whatever willpower they take that like
because you're constantly overriding
your emotional system whereas if you
just go in and you feel the emotions
then you get to refactor that emotional
background that creates this context for
within which all of your decisions occur
and I really like that piece about how
many how many unconscious decisions are
you making that you're not even aware of
when when you look at your life and
you're like well I can only decide
between this and that should I leave my
job or not leave my job should I do that
like how many other decisions are you
not even aware of because you won't let
yourself feel a little bit of discomfort
somatically before you're even aware
that it exists that you have to feel to
be like oh you know what I actually
could just
yeah reorg this department and
right it just it would be a pain in the
ass for everybody and be better off in
the long run yeah that's right that's an
option yeah exactly so right how many of
the so you know we we get hung up on
these three decisions and we'll call
those decisions ABC but they might not
even be decisions we should be making we
should be thinking completely about x y
and z x y and z is what's going to
actually change our world a b and c
doesn't matter what we decide the
chances of a changing our world is two
percent but X Y and Z decisions and
those decisions might change our world
100 percent
and so you see this in marriages and you
see this in in people running companies
that
a lot of the success is built on where
you're putting your time and energy what
decisions you're actually making and
which decisions you're not making and
and that is a really hard thing to
control consciously
and it's far more it's far easier to
control control's not the right word but
to focus on the right stuff if you're
not avoiding
the the emotional garbage
because most of that happens like you
said subconsciously
right that's brilliant so cool Brett
yeah yeah well thank you and so now that
we've you know we've talked about all
this how how do we do this what are what
are some practices what are some ways
that this could be integrated
into people's lives after they hear this
episode
yeah we we have a thing called
um emotional inquiry which you know I
can't go into here with its full in full
depth but I can talk about the
principles behind it the the first thing
to see is that it's an undoing it's not
a doing so
the doing is in the resistance to the
emotion that's what takes the energy
that's what takes the effort
the not resisting the emotion welcoming
the emotion that takes
less effort
it might take a little activation energy
but I I feel far more I have a lot more
energy if I have just experienced an
emotion unresisted than if I experience
emotion resisted
right and so and you I'm seeing the
smile on your face you you know this
experience right so the first thing is
it's an undoing and it's far more like
dropping a hot frying pan it's like how
do I drop a hot frying pan it is one of
the most complicated things to explain
to anybody and you just can't do it how
do you drop a hot frying pan because
it's an undoing
and so similarly how to stop overriding
my emotions right by telling myself what
I should be feeling right what's better
the feeling yeah all of that all that
[__] takes energy and it's the opposite
it's the the the thing that requires the
least energy of of an you know
interacting with an emotional experience
in the way that takes the least energy
is what we're looking for so that's the
first thing about it the second thing is
that you're meeting your emotions with
view so you're meeting the emotions with
vulnerability you're allowing the
feeling
impartiality you're not trying to change
it you're not trying to get rid of it
empathy meaning you're having empathy
with yourself you're allowed you know
you're being with yourself and your
emotional experience you're not trying
to fix it you're not trying to solve it
you're not lost in the story of it
you're just
with yourself just keeping yourself
company and and you're in Wonder and
wonder is a huge piece to this one
and so that's a lot of the emotional
inquiry that we do is like looking at
the emotion
as if it was like as if you were a
little kid finding a turtle for the
first time and you pick up the turtle
and you're like checking it out it's
like looking at your emotional
experience like that is absolutely the
the way to do it and also emotional
expression is great and moving the
emotions and but the most important
thing is like how do I look at this with
some curiosity and wonder excuse me and
and vulnerability and impartiality it's
really like meeting it with you
and there's you know there's techniques
for it but that's the the general
principle
yeah
yeah something that I liked in there was
about
the just the with the amount of energy
that it takes to manage our emotions
there's so much energy that becomes
unlocked when we don't oh my God so
people are often looking for the
solution to their problems that requires
more energy what can I expend more
energy on and I think that's where just
a lot of people are stuck to begin with
yeah and another another throwback to
our q a episode around depression it was
like how much motivation does it take to
beat yourself up constantly in your head
right yeah and what happens when that
motivation is unlocked yeah and
yeah that's that's so it's so right and
and
it's so hard to see when you're in it
like so give yourself a little
compassion and gentleness and the it
like it's so hard for someone to say
like I hear this all the time with
people where they're just like I can't
feel this thing
and you're like you're like you you're
feeling it currently I don't know your
dog you just are resisting the hell out
of it
and and so that's a great experiment
that you can do just like right now as a
for instance is you can
you can take any emotional experience
that you're having at this time take the
most intense one close your eyes and
resist the [__] out of it
resist it
like do everything you can not to feel
it
and then
take the exact same emotional experience
and do everything it's or undo
everything and just embrace it like just
allow just
welcome welcome it the way that you've
always wanted to be welcomed welcome it
in the way that
a five-year-old looking at a turtle for
the first time would welcome something
and you feel that and then that tells
you right away that's the difference
between resisted and unresisted emotions
it's just immediate
now so to speak to some of the inner
wisdom of having resistance to emotions
we you know we developed this for a
reason there what are some let's talk
about some pitfalls that might occur uh
as we as we start down this process like
what makes it that this isn't just a
natural thing that we just do
yeah I can tell you some of the risks
what makes it not the natural thing that
we do so the the in um
what makes it I would this is my theory
and I'll just you know I don't know
I don't know how accurate this is but
this is my going Theory which is
animals before
prefrontal cortex before meaning making
before being able to like look into the
future and see potential patterns they
were they're just looking at the
emotional reaction to the moment
and it makes total sense to
oh don't don't do that thing that hurts
do that thing that feels good and in the
moment that feels really great if if you
don't have psychology but if you have
psychology then don't do that in the
moment means don't remember this thing
it means don't
um you know it means meaning it's like
it's like the stories because it's the
stories that create a tremendous amount
of the emotions and so you're dealing
not you're all of a sudden it became
from two Dimensions to three dimensions
and it doesn't suit that the new
three-dimensional game
so that's the reason that I think it was
developed because if it's just like eat
those mushrooms don't eat those
mushrooms
you do what feels good you don't do what
feels bad but when it comes to
you know apologizing to somebody in the
ramifications of that in your social
network and the ramifications of your
Social Network on your business and all
of that stuff and all the meaning that
you make of that then what feels good in
the moment to what's good in the long
term are very different things
so I think that's where it comes from as
far as the pitfalls go uh the the number
one thing that can happen is and this
only happens to like a really few people
and it's that's usually super Type A
and people I love working with honestly
um uh super type A people who are like
in it to win it and very self-reliant
they're just like they start going after
every single motion all at once and
they're just there every moment they can
they're like okay I'm gonna Embrace this
one I'm gonna Embrace this one
and that can just create too much
transformation too quickly and it can
make you feel very ungrounded so
what I would say is go as hard as you
want but if you start feeling ungrounded
slow it down just you know do it twice a
day no big deal
um so and and I think underneath that is
just don't like pushing yourself to get
there is another avoidance of emotion so
pushing yourself to get to a place is
another avoidance of emotion if you do
that then
and it's not wonder and it's not Wonder
that's right yeah what that what that
brings up for me is like the uh the
experiments with the Learned
helplessness in in mice uh where you
know if they're shocking the mouse and
it can do something about it then
they'll shock the mouse and it'll run
away but if it can't actually leave then
it just numbs itself to the experience
of this lies down because yeah
and this is this is something also in
the way that they used to train
elephants for circuses all of this
ethical you know there's an ethical
conundrums here but there's there's
history so a way that they would train
an elephant to stay in a ring is that as
a baby elephant they would tie it to a
post and then it would learn where it
could go and then eventually it would
become so big that it could just rip the
post out of the ground but it wouldn't
actually try yeah because it had just
learned where the limits were and so
when you're when you're experiencing
emotions that you've avoided for a long
time there was a reason why they
overwhelmed you at some point in time
there was a reason why they weren't safe
you might have gotten attacked for
having having those emotions in certain
contexts and so to be in Wonder Isn't to
say let's just welcome all of the
emotions as a dogmatic fact of what I'm
going to do but rather to just be in
Wonder with what happens when I feel
this emotion what does it bring up for
me
how does my life transform
and what results occur
yeah you know rather than just being
like everything I need to feel and if
I'm not then that's an indicator of my
failing and
even even if it means I'm overwhelming
myself all the time and then going back
and forth between openness and avoidance
right and and so that's the other that's
another you're just describing another
mechanism the same mechanism for another
Pitfall which is if you are loving an
emotion welcoming an emotion to make it
go away
it won't work
like a lot of people will learn oh wow I
do this and then all of a sudden I don't
you know that my feeling of fear goes
away it doesn't actually go away it it
just feels different so we don't
identify it as that uncomfortable thing
but
um but if you're doing it to do that
then you're still in resistance and it
comes back so that's the other Pitfall
is to it is it is welcoming it at every
level it is not trying to make it go
away by welcoming it yeah and then what
happens when you're go ahead yeah what
happens when you're a kid and you
approach your your parent and they love
you in such a way as to make you go away
okay oh yeah that's a very nice painting
yeah nice deer hey how does that how
does that make you feel and how does
that make your emotions feel if you're
doing that with them it reminds me of
somebody that there's like there's like
eight years old eight-year-old I'm with
somebody I can't remember who I was like
eight years old and uh
the kid was like I want to sing you guys
a song and the parent says that's
wonderful and you know the most
important thing about a song Don't you
and the kid's like no it does that it
ends
and
the whole thing was just like like hey
I'm not going to be able to pay
attention to you forever and and and of
course this kid was you know using that
golden algorithm again this this kid
was never satiated and so always wanted
the attention because it was the parent
was trying to avoid that experience and
anyway
um yeah so that's another one and then
I'd say the final one is that
um it works for a while and then people
forget about it
so they have some big issue
and then they feel the emotion the issue
goes away and then they forget about the
rule because everything feels good for a
while oh now like there's this big
relief I'm no longer in this pattern I
feel really relieved and then that
doesn't last forever obviously and then
all of a sudden I'm in this new thing
and then they forget the tool and and
since this is such a powerful important
tool it's definitely a tool I recommend
revisiting on a regular basis
yeah I think that's a big one for
for people who have gone to a workshop
or they've done some some kind of
practice and they're like oh wow so all
it took was me being willing to feel
this sadness and then on the other side
of it was freedom and joy now I'm free
and joyful
but it's actually
it like the next time that sadness comes
up you also would need to be just as
willing to feel it in order to continue
to have the freedom so it's not like a
one and done thing it's a continuously
becoming more and more and more open
to these emotions which become as you
get more and more sensitive to them they
become more and more intense for the
same thing to occur yes and so it is
like the more sensitivity you get to
these emotions and the more willing you
are to feel even the subtle forms of
them then your life changes and you have
the freedom and the joy
and it doesn't mean that you're not
going to feel those things anymore it
actually feels you're gonna it actually
means you're gonna feel even more of
them feeling yeah exactly and and for
those of you who just puckered you're
just puckered hearing what Brad said
and it starts feeling if you do it
consistently it starts feeling better
right away even though you're becoming
more sensitive which is an interesting
dichotomy yeah yeah and the more that
you actually genuinely start to enjoy
the range of feelings the more it'll
come in you know because you're
you're subconscious naturally filters
out things that are not enjoyable yeah
uh until you learn to integrate them and
be like yeah I can actually enjoy
feeling jealousy
oh wow that delicious jealousy yeah it
means there's something I really really
want you know yeah exactly can I let
myself want it completely yeah yeah
that's it
oh beautiful that was a long one that
was great yeah really enjoyed it yeah me
too all right
thank you very much Brett good to talk
to you as always yeah thank you all
right let's do it again soon have a good
one all right thank you everybody bye
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
foreign
[Music]